.TH flvmeta 1 "April 2012" "flvmeta user manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
flvmeta - manipulate or extract metadata in Adobe Flash Video files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] \f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] \f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[] \f[I]OUTPUT_FILE\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] \f[C]-D\f[]|\f[C]--dump\f[] [\f[I]options\f[]]
\f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] \f[C]-F\f[]|\f[C]--full-dump\f[] [\f[I]options\f[]]
\f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] \f[C]-C\f[]|\f[C]--check\f[] [\f[I]options\f[]]
\f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] \f[C]-U\f[]|\f[C]--update\f[] [\f[I]options\f[]]
\f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[] [\f[I]OUTPUT_FILE\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] is a command-line utility aimed at manipulating
Adobe(tm) Flash Video files (FLV), through several commands, only one of
which can be used for each invocation of the program.
.PP
It possesses the ability to compute and inject a variety of values in
the \f[I]onMetaData\f[] event tag, including keyframe indices used by
most video players to allow random-access seeking, notably for HTTP
pseudo-streamed files via a server-side module, by having the client
send the file offset looked up for the nearest desired keyframe.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
Tools such as \f[B]flvmeta\f[] must be used in the case the initial
encoding process is unable to inject those metadata.
.PP
It can also optionnally inject the \f[I]onLastSecond\f[] event, used to
signal the end of playback, for example to revert the player software to
a `stopped' state.
.PP
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] also has the ability to dump metadata and full file
information to standard output, in a variety of textual output formats,
including XML, YAML, and JSON.
.PP
Finally, the program can analyze FLV files to detect potential problems
and errors, and generate a textual report in a raw format, or in XML.
It has the ability to detect more than a hundred problems, going from
harmless to potentially unplayable, using a few real world encountered
issues.
This analysis can also determine and display the minimal Flash Player
version which can be used to correctly play a given file, as well as
codec information.
.PP
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] can operate on arbitrarily large files, and can handle
FLV files using extended (32-bit) timestamps.
It can guess video frame dimensions for all known video codecs supported
by the official FLV specification.
.PP
Its memory usage remains minimal, as it uses a two-pass reading
algorithm which permits the computation of all necessary tags without
loading anything more than the file's tags headers in memory.
Only the dumping of JSON data can consume more memory, since the bundled
\f[C]mjson\f[] library constructs a data tree in memory before
outputting the formatted data.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
Only one command can be specified for an invocation of \f[B]flvmeta\f[].
The chosen command determines the mode of execution of the program.
.PP
By default, if no command is specified, \f[B]flvmeta\f[] will
implicitely choose the command to use according to the presence of
\f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[] and \f[I]OUTPUT_FILE\f[].
.PP
If only \f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[] is present, the \f[C]--dump\f[] command will
be executed.
.PP
If both \f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[] and \f[I]OUTPUT_FILE\f[] are present, the
\f[C]--update\f[] command will be executed.
.PP
Here is a list of the supported commands:
.SS -D, --dump
.PP
Dump a textual representation of the first \f[I]onMetaData\f[] tag found
in \f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[] to standard output.
The default format is XML, unless specified otherwise.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
It is also possible to specify another event via the \f[C]--event\f[]
option, such as \f[I]onLastSecond\f[].
.SS -F, --full-dump
.PP
Dump a textual representation of the whole contents of
\f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[] to standard output.
The default format is XML, unless specified otherwise.
.SS -C, --check
.PP
Print a report to standard output listing warnings and errors detected
in \f[I]INPUT_FILE\f[], as well as potential incompatibilities, and
informations about the codecs used in the file.
The exit code will be set to a non-zero value if there is at least one
error in the file.
.PP
The output format can either be plain text or XML using the
\f[C]--xml\f[] option.
It can also be disabled altogether using the \f[C]--quiet\f[] option if
you are only interested in the exit status.
.PP
Messages are divided into four specific levels of increasing importance:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]info\f[]: informational messages that do not pertain to the file
validity
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]warning\f[]: messages that inform of oddities to the flv format but
that might not hamper file reading or playability, this is the default
level
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]error\f[]: messages that inform of errors that might render the
file impossible to play or stream correctly
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]fatal\f[]: messages that inform of errors that make further file
reading impossible therefore ending parsing completely
.PP
The \f[C]--level\f[] option allows to limit the display of messages to a
minimum level among those, for example if the user is only interested in
error messages and above.
.PP
Each message or message template presented to the user is identified by
a specific code of the following format:
.PP
\f[C][level][topic][id]\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]level\f[] is an upper-case letter that can be either I, W, E, F
according to the aforementioned message levels
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]topic\f[] is a two-digit integer representing the general topic of
the message
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]id\f[] is a unique three-digit identifier for the message, or
message template if parameterized
.PP
Messages can be related to the following topics :
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]10\f[] general flv file format
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]11\f[] file header
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]12\f[] previous tag size
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]20\f[] tag format
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]30\f[] tag types
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]40\f[] timestamps
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]50\f[] audio data
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]51\f[] audio codecs
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]60\f[] video data
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]61\f[] video codecs
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]70\f[] metadata
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]80\f[] AMF data
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]81\f[] keyframes
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]82\f[] cue points
.PP
For example, represents a Warning in topic 51 with the id 050, which
represents a warning message related to audio codecs, in that case to
signal that an audio tag has an unknown codec.
.SS -U, --update
.PP
Update the given input file by inserting a computed \f[I]onMetaData\f[]
tag.
If \f[I]OUTPUT_FILE\f[] is specified, it will be created or overwritten
instead and the input file will not be modified.
If the original file is to be updated, a temporary file will be created
in the default temp directory of the platform, and it will be copied
over the original file at the end of the operation.
This is due to the fact that the output file is written while the
original file is being read due to the two-pass method.
.PP
The computed metadata contains among other data full keyframe
informations, in order to allow HTTP pseudo-streaming and random-access
seeking in the file.
.PP
By default, an \f[I]onLastSecond\f[] tag will be inserted, unless the
\f[C]--no-last-second\f[] option is specified.
.PP
Normally overwritten by the update process, the existing metadata found
in the input file can be preserved by the \f[C]--preserve\f[] option.
.PP
It is also possible to insert custom string values with the
\f[C]--add\f[] option, which can be specified multiple times.
.PP
By default, the update operation is performed without output, unless the
\f[C]--verbose\f[] option is specified, or the \f[C]--print-metadata\f[]
is used to print the newly written metadata to the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS DUMP
.TP
.B -d \f[I]FORMAT\f[], --dump-format=\f[I]FORMAT\f[]
specify dump format where \f[I]FORMAT\f[] is `xml' (default), `json',
`raw', or `yaml'
.RS
.RE
.SS FULL DUMP
.SS CHECK
.SS UPDATE
.SS GENERAL
.SH FORMATS
.SH EXAMPLES
.SH EXIT STATUS
.SH BUGS
.PP
\f[B]flvmeta\f[] does not support encrypted FLV files yet.
.SH AUTHOR
.SH COPYRIGHT
.SH CONTACT
